# NexusKrop Moving (as for now)

NexusKrop is currently moving to [a new home](https://codeberg.org/NexusKrop) due to recent community situtation and risk factors involving GitHub, Inc. products and potentioal copyright risks.

## What is happening?

Free Software and Open Source community, specficially those supports Copyleft ideology, is in [serious and critical disputes](https://sfconservancy.org/GiveUpGitHub/) between
GitHub, Inc. regarding GitHub Copilot AI-assisted programming software/service, mainly on how GitHub, Inc. [uses public code in public projects](https://github.blog/2021-06-30-github-copilot-research-recitation/)
hosted on GitHub to train the AI model, which Open Source NGOs and lawyers believes to have infrigated copyright of the authors. Together with a general hatred towards Microsoft Corporation,
This issue triggered further disputes, resulting in NGOs calling open source project maintainers to move their project away from GitHub.

NexusKrop wants to see a resolution as soon as possible, but the copyright of public projects are matters between GitHub, Inc. and the FOSS community and NGOs.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Communities: What if I/We have public projects hosted on GitHub?

This dispute currently does not impact the services and operation of GitHub, Inc. as of now but we advice to reconsider hosting if any of your project uses a licence
that is stricter than the MIT/Expat licence, even only slightly, until the disputes are resolved.

Self-hosting is an option; but we do acknowledge that not everyone have the resource available to self-host their Git repositories (contrary to popular belief, Federation can't fix this). Plus certain projects may have requirements on Countinous Integration services which may also require self-hosting.

> **Note**: It is completely fine that you host your code on a self-hosted Git server running on Azure, whether you use a PaaS or IaaS solution.

And currently "ethical" hosting platforms are not mature yet (scaling issues), plus all "ethical" platforms are operated by volunteers.

### Communities: What if I/we use Azure DevOps?

Azure DevOps Services and Server are not impacted.

### NGOs and Companies: What if we use GitHub Enterprise Server/other closed-source on permises solution?

These solutions are not impacted, but if you are an NGO, please review such.

### NGOs and Companies: What if we use GitHub for our open source projects?

Please have your lawyers carefully review Terms of Service of GitHub, your licences used and all the copyright risks involved for hosting on GitHub, because there are no case laws yet. If you need to move, consider having your own server; most of the times, "ethical" platforms may not have a dedicated tech team that is even half your ability, or do not have a tech team at all.

### Companies: What if we use GitHub Copilot in our products?

Please have your lawyers carefully review all snippets generated by GitHub Copilot, even if that means your entire codebase, or such products are open source/libre to look for signs for any legal risks involved. As open source projects may claim these snippets are used without their permission, it is wise to do so.
